---
title: "Upgrade"
sidebar_position: 3
description: How to upgrade your Apache DevLake to a newer version
---

## Upgrade Options


### Option 1: Update the image tags to a newer version

This is recommended way to upgrade your instance, it is the easiest way to go. However, the `docker-compose.yml` or the `helm chart` might change over time (e.g., a new persistent volume is required for new feature to work properly), you may have to adopt these changes manually or opt for the next option.

### Option 2: Deploy a new instance while keeping the configuration

1. Dump the `.env` file from the existing `devlake` container and shut it down
2. Fire up the new container with the `.env` file mounted to the correct path


## Two Things to Note


1. Database migration.
   Starting from [Release v0.10.0 · apache/incubator-devlake](https://github.com/apache/incubator-devlake/releases/tag/v0.10.0),
   DevLake auto-migrates your table schema and records to the newer version. Normally you don't need to do anything for the migration. However, please keep in mind the migration is one-way only, **downgrade is not supported**. Please consider backing up your database if there's any data you'd like to keep.
2. Preserve the `.env` file.
   DevLake reads and writes some configurations from/to the `.env` file. An example is the `ENCODE_KEY` generated by the `devlake` container during the first boot. `ENCODE_KEY` is used to encrypt sensitve information in the database, e.g., personal access tokens and passwords. Normally, users don't need to worry about the `.env` file during upgrade. But in the following scenarios, users may want to back up the `.env` file:

   1. When a user deploys a new DevLake instance and points it to an existing cloud managed database. Since the existing database is encrypted with the `ENCODE_KEY` in the `.env` file, the user needs to port the old `.env` file to the new DevLake instance.
   2. When a user deploys DevLake to AWS ECS but did not properly persist the `.env` file.

   To back up `.env` file, users can log into the `devlake` container and dump the file somewhere else. The file path in the container is `/app/.env` or `/app/config/.env` if you were using `helm` (unless the `ENV_PATH` environment variable is specified).

